SEKAI{LACTF23} (#33)
project-sekai-ctf/sekai.team: data/blog/lactf-2023/snek.md

---
title: LA CTF 2023 – Snek
date: '2023-02-12'
draft: false
authors: ['default']
tags: ['LACTF 2023', 'Reverse', 'Python', 'Pickle']
summary: 'Reverse engineer pickle and code objects to determine winning moves.'
canonical: 'https://justinapplegate.me/2023/lactf-snek'
---

## Snek (Reverse, 487 Points)

> Note: Tested under the python:3.10-slim-bullseye docker image
>
> Attachment: [snek.py](https://github.com/Legoclones/website/blob/main/source/static/lactf-snek/snek.py)

> The challenge file provided was a oneliner that looked like below (with a 15,000 char payload):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The challenge file provided was a one-liner that looked like below (with a 15,000 char payload):
```

```
    0: \x80 PROTO      5
    2: X    BINUNICODE '0'
    8: \x94 MEMOIZE    (as 0)
    9: 0    POP
   10: X    BINUNICODE '1'
   16: \x94 MEMOIZE    (as 1)
   17: 0    POP

...

  802: c    GLOBAL     'builtins str.join'
  821: V    UNICODE    ''
  823: (    MARK
  824: g        GET        25
  828: g        GET        18
  832: g        GET        12
  836: g        GET        20
  840: g        GET        21
  844: g        GET        14
  848: l        LIST       (MARK at 823)
  849: \x86 TUPLE2
  850: R    REDUCE
  851: c    GLOBAL     'builtins str.join'
  870: V    UNICODE    ''

...
```

The output consisted of printing out the pickle opcodes and values in the format `line: rawopcode OPCODENAME opcodevalue`. I luckily found a very good documentation source for pickle opcodes at [docs.juliahub.com](https://docs.juliahub.com/Pickle/LAUNc/0.1.0/opcode/). Since the output was long and complicated, I decided to build my own interpreter that would correctly process each opcode, the stack, the memo list, etc. This would allow me to simulate the same behavior, but inspect opcode calls as they were being made.

> My full interpreter can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/Legoclones/website/blob/main/source/static/lactf-snek/pickletools_interpreter.py). It reads a file called [`instructions.txt`](https://github.com/Legoclones/website/blob/main/source/static/lactf-snek/instructions.txt), which is just the pickletools output with only `OPCODENAME opcodevalue` (no `line: rawopcode`). It also initializes a stack, where values (of type string, int, dict, function, class, etc.) are kept and processed, and a memo list, which is more of the long-term storage. I won't go over all 31 opcodes I implemented, but rather some of the important ones.

Reviewer: Fix quotation marks and apostrophes, same below.
